---
layout: post
title:  "ACE model"
subheadline: Blog
categories: blog
image:
    thumb: ace.jpg
    title: ace.jpg

---
--WIP--
(this blog is currently under development)


The ACE model for change

The ACE model for change is simple and effective.  

<h1 style="">A</h1><h3>Acknowledge</h3>
Acknowledge there is a problem.  
No changes can occur unless there is an acknoledgement that there is a problem. 
Simple, yet widely ignored. 
If you are trying to change a person or team and they haven't acknowledge that there is a problem, you're going to have a bad time.  

Acknowledge that the only person you can control is yourself.  Recognizing how difficult that may be, remember that it is hard for others as well. 
There are a variety of options including "Holding Up The Mirror" to assist others in seeing the problem. 
It is ultimately their choice if they wan to Acknowledge it exists. 

As they do, Acknowledge they are being heard.  Make sure they know you know.  

You can't proceed until some serious Acknowledgement occurs.  

<h1 style="">C</h1><h3>Commit</h3>
Commit to doing something about what was just Acknowledged.
Most people take pride in their word.  They want to do what they say they are going to do.  
If a commitment is being made, make it clear.  
Don't make a commitment on behalf of someone else.  They must make that commitment.  
You can just ask clarifying questions and acknowledge what they commited to by repeating it.  
Write it down.
Help them using their innate Consistency Principle. 

<h1 style="">E</h1><h3>Everything Else</h3>
Explore, Experiment, Execute, Evaluate, Eviscorate, Emancipate, etc, etc, etc.
These are the Easy things.  
These are the things most Everyone is telling you to do.  
The tools, practices, processes the patterns.  

These are likely the things which made you successful.  The things you know best how to do. 
If other people could be just like you then we'd all be awesome!  

A lot of people start here, and end here, frustrated.  
If there hasn't been a clear Acknowledgement and Commitment, at best you'll be able to force the E's.  
Maybe there will be some successes, but they may come out of compliance.  As soon as the pressure is relieved the legacy is revived.


This is a hard problem to solve.  Just like what you are trying to inflict upon others may seem hard to them.  
Search for ways to get to a serious Acknowledgement and Commitment and you will be on E-Z Street.  

Ignore it, and wander with misplaced confidence.
